build/segments.mdx, before:

---
title: "Segments"
---

Segments are groupings of members that you can use to target incentives to specific subsets of your customer base. When one or more segments are applied to an incentive, only members that are in at least one of those segments will be able to earn rewards through that incentive.

To add a segment, navigate to the Segments page and select **Create Segment**.

### Add and Remove Members

Segment lists can be managed via API, as well as manually.

You can quickly add and remove members administratively using external IDs. To add or remove members from a segment, access the three-dot menu from the details pane, select **Add Members** or **Remove Members** and enter the external IDs of the members.

You can also modify the segments of a member directly from the member's detail page.

### Activate a Segment

Once you've defined your segment's membership, you can go ahead and activate it. From the three-dot menu, choose "Mark as active".

### Statuses

Segments can be in one of three statuses:

- _Open-In progress_: The segment has been created, but not yet activated.
- _Open-Active_: The segment can be assigned to incentives, and such incentives will only be processed for members who belong to the segment.
- _Resolved-Inactive_: The segment is not in use and cannot be applied to incentives.

Segments no longer in use can be deleted.

Commit message:

Update build/segments.mdx with new image

build/segments.mdx, after:

---
title: "Segments"
---

Segments are groupings of members that you can use to target incentives to specific subsets of your customer base. When one or more segments are applied to an incentive, only members that are in at least one of those segments will be able to earn rewards through that incentive.

To add a segment, navigate to the Segments page and select **Create Segment**.

![Create Segment](/images/create-segment.png)

### Segment Type

Segments can be one of two types:

- **List**: The segment consists of a list of members that belong to the segment. The list can be updated administratively or via automation. This type of segment is typically used when segment membership is managed outside of Fielo (such as by a Customer Data Platform) or is discretionary (such as a "VIP Members" list).
- **Criteria**: Segment membership is defined dynamically based on member attributes and is updated on-the-fly. For example, if a member performs an activity that is incentivized only for members who have provided a mobile phone number, Fielo will verify in real time whether the member has indeed provided one. Later on, if the member performs the same activity, Fielo will check once again during incentive processing to see if the member is part of that segment.

<Warning>
  Once selected, a segment's type cannot be changed.
</Warning>

### Manage List Segment Membership

List segments can be managed via API, as well as manually.

You can quickly add and remove members administratively using external IDs. To add or remove members from a segment, access the three-dot menu from the details pane, select **Add Members** or **Remove Members** and enter the external IDs of the members.

You can also modify the segments of a member directly from the member's detail page.

### Activate a Segment

Once you've defined your segment's membership, you can go ahead and activate it. From the three-dot menu, choose "Mark as active".

### Statuses

Segments can be in one of three statuses:

- _Open-In progress_: The segment has been created, but not yet activated.
- _Open-Active_: The segment can be assigned to incentives, and such incentives will only be processed for members who belong to the segment.
- _Resolved-Inactive_: The segment is not in use and cannot be applied to incentives.

Segments no longer in use can be deleted.
